Welcome, in this video, we're going to create a new release and tag directly on GitHub.
I'm currently logged into GitHub and on the website GitHub repository within releases.
At this point, we have deleted all of our annotated tags
and we are left with our two lightweight tags: "stable" and "unstable".
If I go over to tags, I can see the same two tags listed.
What's interesting is, if I want to create a new tag on GitHub
I can't directly do it from the tags tab; instead it's folded in with releases.
Click on "Releases"; now, let's create a new tag and release at the same time.
Click on the button "Draft a new release".
This takes us to the release notes form, but we have some extra options now.
First we can actually create our tag name, in this case, I'm going to use "v1.0".
And, with a new tag name, I need to associate it some place in GitHub.
With the targets dropdown, expand it out;
I have two branches I can use, or I can use a list of commits.
I want my "v1.0" tag to be associated with the master branch.
Go back over to the branches tab, and then select "master".
Now, proceed to fill out the release notes like before.
I'm going to use "Release 1.0" as the header for this release.
Alright, so I'm going to use some markdown syntax, and I'm going to preview it
before I submit; so I have my heading and my bold for "master".
Once I'm content with this, I'm going to leave the "This is a pre-release" option unchecked,
since I want this to be a production ready type tag. Then click "Publish release".
GitHub will then create both the tag and the release notes under witch it's based on,
and then it takes us to the "Release 1.0" tag's page.
If we go back to releases, we can see that we have our other tags listed,
and we also have "Release 1.0" listed with the release notes.
And, this time, we have a nice green label that says "Latest release",
which is different than the other release we had, which was "pre-release".
If we switch over to tags, we have our "v1.0" tag.
Let's go back over to our local repository; I'm currently on the "develop" branch,
within our "website" Git repository on our local system.
And, since I know this tag is going to be associated with master,
lets' go ahead and switch back to master: "git checkout master".
If I list the tags that are currently available in our Git repository,
we have "stable", "unstable", and our "v0.3-beta".
Like I've demonstrated before, just because we delete the tag in GitHub,
doesn't mean we've deleted the tag locally.
In this case, I'd like to keep this tag locally for future reference.
In order to get all the updates from GitHub type "git pull".
Doing the "git pull", it sees our new tag out on GitHub and brings it down.
Now, if I type "git tag", it shows our "v1.0" tag.
Let's inspect our tag locally: "git show v1.0".
And I can tell by the output of the "show" command; since there's no tag specific information
when we show that tag, that means this is a lightweight tag,
which means that GitHub will create lightweight tags
when you create them using the GitHub interface.